The following is a conversation with Elon Musk, his fourth time on this The Lex Friedman podcast. I thought you were going to finish it. It's one of the greatest themes in all film history. Yeah, that's great. So I was just thinking about the Roman Empire as one does. Does that whole meme where all guys are thinking about the Roman Empire at least once a day? And half the population is confused whether it's true or not. But more seriously thinking about the wars going on in the world today. And as you know, war and military conquest has been a big part of Roman society and culture. And it I think has been a big part of most empires and dynasty throughout human history. So they usually came as a result of conquest. I mean, there's something like the Orchardangarian Empire where there was just a lot of sort of clever marriages. But fundamentally there's an engine of conquest and they celebrate excellence in warfare. Many of the leaders were excellent generals. Yeah, that kind of thing. So a big picture question, Grakha proved. I asked this is a good question to ask. Tested Grakha proved. At least on fun mode. To what degree do you think war is part of human nature versus a consequence of how human societies are structured? I asked this as you have somehow controversially been a proponent of peace. I've generally proponent of peace. I mean, ignorance is perhaps, in my view, the real enemy to counter it. That's the real hard part, not fighting other humans. But all creatures fight. I mean, the jungle is like, you look at the, you'll think of the nature as perhaps some sort of peaceful thing. But in fact, it is not. There's some quite funny, when a hoots, a hootsaw thing where he's like in the jungle, like saying that it's like basically just murder and death in every direction. I mean, the plants animals in the jungle are constantly trying to kill each other every single day, every minute. So it's not like, you know, we're unusual in their respect. Well, there's a relevant question here whether with greater intelligence comes greater control over these base instincts for violence. Yes. We have much more vulnerability to control our limb against instinct for violence than say chimpanzee. And in fact, if one looks at say chimpanzee society, it is not friendly. I mean, the bonobos are an exception. But chimpanzee society is full of violence and it's quite, quite horrific, frankly. That's our limbic system in action. Like you know what would be on the wrong side of a chimpanzee, you'll eat your face off and tear and not so. Yeah, basically there's no limits or ethics or there almost had just war. There's no just war in chimpanzee societies is is worn and dominant by any means necessary. Yeah, chimpanzee society is a part like a primitive version of human society. It's they're not like peace loving basically at all. There's extreme violence. And then once in a while somebody who's watched too many Disney movies decides to raise chimpanzee as a pet. And then that eats their face or if they're not so awful, choose it for yourself and that kind of thing. Yeah. It's happened several times. Ripping your nuts off is an interesting strategy for interaction. It's happened to people. It's unfortunate. Like that's I guess a one way to ensure that the other chimpanzee doesn't contribute to the gene pool. From a martial arts perspective is the fascinating strategy. The nut ripper. I wonder which of the martial arts teaches that. I think it's fair to say if somebody's got your nuts in their hands and has the option of rubbing them off. You will be amenable to whatever they want. Yeah. So like I said, somehow controversially you've been a proponent of peace on Twitter on X. So let me ask you about the war is going on today and to see what the path to peace could be. How do you hope the current war in Israel and Gaza comes to an end? What path do you see that can minimize human suffering in the long term in that part of the world? Well, I think that that part of the world is definitely like if you look up the there is no easy answer in the dictionary. It'll be that like the picture of the release in Israel especially. So there is no easy answer. What my, this is strictly my opinion of, you know, is that the goal of Moss was to provoke an overreaction from Israel. That's what I expect to have a military victory. But they they really wanted to commit the worst atrocities that they could in order to provoke the most aggressive response possible from Israel. And then leverage that aggressive response to rally Muslims worldwide for the cause of Gaza and Palestine, which they have succeeded in doing. So the countertour of thing here, I think that the thing that I think should be done even though it's very difficult is that I would recommend that Israel engage in the most conspicuous acts of kindness possible every part, everything. That is the actual thing that would thought the goal of the Moss. So in some sense, the degree that makes sense in geopolitics, turn the other cheek implemented. It's not exactly turn the other cheek because I do think that there's, you know, I think it is appropriate for Israel to find the Moss members and, you know, either it either kill or more a cost rate them. Like that something that something has to be done because that they're just going to keep keep keep coming otherwise. But in addition to that, they need to do whatever they can. There's some talk of establishing, for example, a mobile hospital. I'd recommend doing that. Just making sure that, you know, this food, water, medical necessities and just be over the top about it and be very transparent. So it's that the camp, you can't claim it's a trick. Like just put away a camp on the thing. You know, all 24, 7, deploy acts of kindness. Yeah, conspicuous acts of kindness that that that with that are unequivocal meaning they can't be somehow because the Moss will then their response will be always a trick. Therefore, you have to counter how how is not a trick. This ultimately fights the broader force of hatred in the region. Yes. And I'm not sure who said it to some part of a powerful saying, but an eye for the for an eye makes everyone blind. Now, that neck of the woods, they really believe in the whole eye for anything. But I mean, you really have, if you're not going to just outright commit genocide, like it against an entire people, which obviously would not be acceptable to to really shouldn't be acceptable to anyone. Then you're going to leave basically a lot of people alive who subsequently hate Israel. So really the question is like, how for every Hamas member that you kill, how many did you create? And if you create more than you kill, you've not succeeded. That's the real situation there. And it's safe to say that if you kill somebody's child in Gaza, if you've made at least a few Hamas members who will die, just kill Israeli. That's the situation. But I mean, this is one of the most contentious subjects one could possibly discuss. But I think if the goal ultimate is sort of long term peace, one has to be look at this from standpoint of over time, are there more or fewer terrorists being created? Let me just link on war. Yeah, war, it's safe to say, war is existed and always will exist always will exist always has always existed and always will exist. I hope not. You think it always will always be. There will always be. This question of just how much will and and you know what? You know, this is this this sort of the scope and scale of war. But to my attention that there would not be any more in the future, I think would be very unlikely outcome. So I talked about the culture series. There's war even there. Yes, it's giant war. The first books are also with them a gigantic galactic war where trillions die trillions. But it's still nevertheless protects these pockets of flourishing. So somehow you can have galactic war and still have pockets of flourishing. Yeah, I mean, I guess if we are able to one day expect to you know, full of galaxy or whatever, there will be a galactic war. That's a part. The scale, I mean the scale of war has been increasing increasing increasing. It's like a race between the scale of suffering and the scale of flourishing. Yes. A lot of people seem to be using this tragedy to beat the drums of war and feed the military industrial complex. Do you worry about this? The people who are rooting for escalation and how can it be stopped? One of the things that just concerned me is that there are very few people alive today who actually just really understand the horrors of war. At least in the US. I mean obviously the people in on the front lines in Ukraine and Russia who understand just how terrible war is. But how many people in the West understand it? In my grandfather was in World War II. He was severely traumatized. I mean he was there for almost six years in the Eastern North African Italy. All his friends were killed in front of him and he would have died too. Except they randomly gave some, I guess IQ test or something and he scored very high. Now he was not an officer. I think corporal or sergeant or something like that. Because he didn't finish high school. He had to drop out of high school because his dad died and he had to work to support his siblings. So because he didn't graduate high school, he was not eligible for the officer corps. So you know, he kind of got put into the cannon fodder category basically. But then this randomly they gave him this test. He was transferred to British intelligence in London. That's where he met my grandmother. But he had PTSD next level. Like next level. I mean, just didn't talk. Just didn't talk. And if you tried talking him, he'd just tell you to shut up. And he won a bunch of medals. Never, never ragged about it once. Not even to hinted. Nothing. I like found out about it because I his military records are online. That's a sound. Well, how I know. So he would say like no, no way. Now, do you want to do want to do that again? But how many people? Now he obviously he now he died, you know, 20 years ago or longer actually 30 years ago. How many people are alive that remember World War II? Not many. And the same perhaps applies to the threat of nuclear war. Yeah, I mean, there are enough nuclear bombs pointed at United States to make the rebel the radioactive rebel balance many times. There's two major wars going on right now. So you talked about the threat of a GI quite a bit. But now as we sit here with the intensity of conflict going on, do you worry about nuclear war? I think we shouldn't discount the possibility of nuclear war. It is a civilizational threat. Right now, I can be wrong, but I think the current probability of nuclear war is quite low. But there are a lot of nigs pointed at us. So, and we have a lot of nigs pointed at other people. They're still there. Nobody's put their guns away. The muscles are still in the silos. And the leaders don't seem to be the ones with the nukes talking to each other. No. There are wars which are tragic and difficult on a local basis. And then there was which are civilization ending. Well, has that potential. Obviously global thermonuclear warfare has high potential to end civilization perhaps permanently. To severely wound and perhaps set back human progress by the stone age or something. Pretty bad. Probably scientists in the engineering want to be super popular after that as well. Like you got us into this mess. So, generally, which I think we obviously want to prioritize civilizational risks over things that are painful and tragic on a local level, but not civilizational. How do you hope the war in Ukraine comes to an end? And what's the path once again to minimizing human suffering there? Well, I think what's likely to happen, which is really pretty much the way it is, is that telling me very close to the current lines will be how a ceasefire or truce happens. But you know, you just have a situation right now where whoever goes on the offensive will suffer casualties at several times the rate of whoever's on the defense. Because you've got defense and death, you've got mind fields, trenches, anti-tank defenses. Nobody has air superiority because the anti-aircraft missiles are really far better than the aircraft, like the far more of them. And so neither side has air superiority. Tanks are basically death traps, just slow moving and they're not immune to anti-tank weapons. So you really just have long range artillery and infantry, trenches. It's World War I, all over again. With drones, you know, throwing old drones, some drones there. Which makes the long range artillery just that much more accurate and better and so more efficient and murdering people on both sides. Yeah, so whoever is, you don't want to be trying to advance from either side because the probability of dining is incredibly high. So in order to overcome defense and death trenches and mind fields, you really need a significant local superiority in numbers. Ideally, combined arms, wherever you do a fast attack with aircraft, a concentrated number of tanks and a lot of people. That's the only way you're going to punch through a line. And then you're going to punch through and then not have reinforcements just kick you right out again. I mean, I really recommend people read World War I warfare in detail. It's rough. I mean, the sheer number of people that died there was mind-boggling. And it's almost impossible to imagine the end of it that doesn't look like almost exactly like the beginning in terms of what land belongs to who and so on. But on the other side of a lot of human suffering, death and destruction of infrastructure. Yes, I mean, the thing that the reason I proposed a sort of cruise or piece a year ago was because I predicted pretty much exactly what would happen, which is a lot of people dying for basically almost no changes in land. And the loss of the flower of Ukrainian and Russian youth and we should have some sympathy for the Russian boys as well as Ukrainian boys because they're not boys and asked to be on their front line. They have to be. So there's a lot of sons not come back to their parents. And I think most of them don't really have, they don't hate the other side. It's sort of like, is this saying about the same comes from World War I? It's like young boys who don't know each other, killing each other on the half of old men that do know each other. The hell's the point of that? So Volotov and Zelensky said that he's not or has said in the past he's not interested in talking Putin directly. Do you think he should sit down, man to man leader leader and negotiate peace? I think I would just recommend do not send the flower of Ukrainian youth to be to die in trenches, whether he talks Putin or not, just don't do that. Whoever it goes on the offensive will lose massive numbers of people. And history will not look kindly upon them. You spoken honestly about the possibility of war between US and China in the long term if no diplomatic solution is found. For example, on the question of Taiwan and one China policy, how do we avoid the trajectory where these two superpowers clash? Well, it's worth reading that book on the difficult to pronounce the Cedodese trap, I believe it's called. I love war history. I like inside out in backwards. There's hardly a battle I haven't read about. And trying to figure out what really was the cause of victory in any particular case as opposed to what one side or another claimed was the reason. Both the victory and what sparked the war. Yeah, the whole thing. Yeah, so that Athens and Sparta is a classic case. The thing about the Greeks is they really wrote down a lot of stuff. They loved writing. There are lots of interesting things that happen in many parts of the world, but they just feel it isn't right down. So we don't know what happened or they didn't really write with in detail. They just would say like we had a battle and we won. Like what can you add a bit more? The Greeks, they really wrote a lot. They're very articulate on it. They just love writing. So and we have a bunch of that writing that's preserved. So we know what led up to the Peloponnesian War between the Spartan and Athenian Alliance. And we know that they saw it coming. The Spartans didn't write. They also weren't very focused by their nature, but they did write, but they weren't very focused. They weren't tourists. But the Athenians and the other Greeks wrote a line. And they were like. And Sparta was really kind of like the leader of Greece. But Athens grew stronger and stronger with each passing year. And everyone's like, well, that's inevitable that there's going to be a clash between Athens and Sparta. Well, how do we avoid that? And they couldn't, they actually, they saw it coming and they still could not avoid it. So, you know, at some point if there's, if one group, one civilization or country or whatever exceeds another sort of like if, you know, the United States has been the biggest kid to get in the block since I think around 1890 from an economic standpoint. So, the United States has been the economic, most powerful economic engine in the world longer than anyone's been alive. And the foundation of war is economics. So, now we have a situation in the case of China where the economy is likely to be two, perhaps three times. It's larger than that of the US. So, imagine you the biggest kid in the block. For as long as anyone can remember, it suddenly, it kind of comes along who swipes your size. So, we see it coming. How is it possible to stop? Is there some, let me throw something out there, just intermixed thing of cultures, understanding. There just seem to be a giant cultural gap in understanding of each other. And you're an interesting case study because you are an American. Obviously you've done a lot of incredible manufacture here in the United States, but you also work with China. I spent a lot of time in China and met with the leadership many times. So, maybe a good question to ask is what are some things about China that people don't understand positive, just in the culture, what some interesting things that you've learned about the Chinese? Well, the sheer number of really smart, hardworking people in China is incredible. There are really, say like how many smart, hardworking people are in China just far more than there than they are here, I think in my opinion. And there were a lot of energy. So, I mean, the architecture in China that's in recent years is far more impressive than the US. I mean, the train stations, the buildings, the high speed rail, everything. It's really far more impressive than what we have in the US. I mean, I recommend somebody just go to Shanghai and Beijing. Look at the buildings and go to take the train from Beijing to Xianway, have the Terracotta Warriors. China has got incredible history, very long history. And, you know, I think arguably the, in terms of the use of language from a written standpoint, sort of one of one of the oldest paths, perhaps the oldest written language. And then China people did write things down. So, now China historically has always been with the rare exception, been internally focused. They have not been a positive. They've fought each other. There have been many, many civil wars. In the three kingdoms war, I believe they lost about 70% of their population. So they've had brutal internal wars. Like civil wars that make the US of all look small by comparison. So I think it's important to appreciate that China is not monolithic. We sort of think of China as one entity, well one mind. And this is definitely not the case. From what I've seen, and I think most people understand China would agree, people in China think about China 10 times more than they think about anything outside of China. So it's like 90% of their consideration is, you know, our is, is in total. Well, is that a really positive thing when you're talking about the collaboration and the future piece between superpowers when you're inward facing, which is like focusing on improving yourself versus focusing on, yeah, quote unquote, improving others through military might. The good news, the history of China suggests that China is not a positive meaning they're not going to go out and invade a whole bunch of countries. They do feel very strongly. So that's good. I mean, because a lot of a lot of very powerful countries have been a positive. The US is one of the also one of the rare cases that has not been a positive. And actually, after World War II, the US could have basically taken over the world in any country. Like we got New York, nobody else got Newx. We don't even have to lose soldiers, which country do you want? And the United States could have taken over everything. Or it, well, and it didn't. And the United States actually helped revolt countries to help revolt Europe, you know, help rebuild Japan. This is very unusual behavior, almost unprecedented. You know, the US did conspicuous acts of kindness, like the Berlin Air Lift. And I think, you know, it's always like, well, America's done bad things. Well, of course, America's done bad things. But one needs to look at the whole track record. And just generally, you know, one one sort of test would be, how do you treat your prisons or war? Or let's say, you know, no offense to the Russians, but let's say you're in Germany, it's 1945. You got the Russian army coming one side, you got the French, British and American armies coming the other side. Who would you like to be to surrender to? Like no country is like, morally perfect. But I recommend being a POW with the Americans. That would be mighty choice very strongly. In the form of a new POW very much so. And in fact, one of our brown took, you know, a smart guy was like, we've got to be captured by the Americans. And in fact, the SS was under orders to execute one brown and all of the German rock and issues. And they narrowly escaped their SS. They said they were going out for a walk in the woods. They left in the middle of winter with no coats. And they ran like ever no food, no coast no water. And just ran like hell and ran west. And by sheer like they, I think his brother found like a bicycle or something. And and they just cycled where it's as fast they couldn't found found a US patrol. So anyway, let's let's want this one where you can tell. Morality is who we really want to be a PW. It's not fun anywhere, but some places are much worse than others. So. So like America has been well far from perfect, generally a benevolent force. And we should always be self critical and we try to be better. But anyone will have a right nose that. So so I think there are some in this way, China and the United States are similar. And the country has been a positive in a significant way. So that's like a, you know, a shared principle, I guess. Now, China does feel very strongly about Taiwan. They've been very clear about that for a long time. You know, from this down point, it's it would be like one of the states is is, you know, not there like like Hawaii or something like that, but but more significant than Hawaii, you know. And Hawaii is pretty significant for us. So they view it as really the, there's a fundamental part of China. The island of Formosa, not Taiwan, that is not part of China, but should be. And the only reason it hasn't been is because the US Pacific fleet. And is there economic power grows and is there military power grows? The thing that they are clearly saying. Is there interest will, you know, clearly be materialized? Yes. China has been very clear that they will incorporate Taiwan peacefully or militarily, but that they will incorporate it from this end point is 100% likely. You know, something you said about conspicuous acts of kindness as a geopolitical policy, it almost seems naive. But I'd venture to say that this is probably the path forward. How you avoid most wars. Just as you say it, it sounds naive, but it's kind of brilliant. If you believe in the goodness of underlying most of human nature, it just seems like conspicuous acts of kindness can reverberate through the populace of the country's involved. Yeah. Well, and deescalate. Absolutely. So after World War One, they made a big mistake. You know, they basically try to lump all the blame on Germany. And, you know, settle journey with impossible reparations. And, you know, really there was a lot of, there was quite a bit of blame to go around for World War One, but they try to, you know, put it all on Germany. And that was, that that laid the seeds for World War Two. So a lot of people were not just Hitler, a lot of people felt wronged. And they wanted vengeance. And they got it. People don't forget. Yeah. You kill somebody's father, mother, son, daughter, they're not going to forget it. They don't want vengeance. So after World War Two, they're like, well, that treat of a sigh was a huge mistake. World War One. And so this time, instead of, you know, crushing the losers, we're actually going to help them with the module plan. And we're going to help rebuild, rebuild Germany. We're going to help rebuild, you know, Austria and the other, you know, Italy and whatnot. So, and that was the right move. There's a, it does feel like there's a profound truth to, uh, conspicuous acts of kindness being an antidote to this. Something must stop the cycle of reciprocal violence. Something must stop it or it will, you know, it'll, it'll, it'll never stop. Just eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth, lymph for a limb, life for a life, forever and ever. To escape briefly, the darkness was some incredible engineering work. Uh, XAI just released GROC, AI assistant that I've gotten a chance to play with. It's, uh, it's amazing on many levels. First of all, it's amazing that a relatively small team in a relatively short amount of time was able to develop this close to state of the art system. Uh, another, uh, incredible thing is there's a regular mode and there's a fun mode. Yeah. I guess I'm to play for that one. I wish it, first of all, everything in life had a fun mode. I mean, there's something compelling beyond just fun about the fun mode interacting with a large language model. I'm not sure exactly what it is because I've only had a little bit of time to play with it, but it just makes it more interesting, more vibrant to interact with the system. Yeah. Uh, absolutely. I, um, our AI GROC is modeled after the Hitchhiker's Guide to Galaxy, which is one of my favorite books, which is a book on philosophy disguises a book on humor. Um, and, um, I would say that is that forms the basis of my philosophy, which is that we don't know the meaning of life. But the more we can expand the scope and scale of consciousness, digital and biological, the more we are able to understand what questions to ask about the answer that is the universe. So I have a philosophy of curiosity. There is generally a feeling like this AI system has an outward looking like the way you are like sitting with a good friend looking up at the stars, like asking podhead like questions about the universe wondering what it's all about, the curiosity to talk about there. There's a sense, no matter how mundane the question I ask it, there's a sense of cosmic grandeur to the whole thing. Well, we are actually working hard to have, uh, engineering, math, physics, answers that you can count on. So for the other sort of, AI is out there that was so-called large language models. I've not found the engineering to be reliable. And it, the hallucination, it, it, it, unfortunately, hallucinations most when you least wanted to hallucinate. So when you're asking important difficult questions, that's where it tends to be confidently wrong. So we're, we're really trying hard to say, okay, how do we be as grounded as possible so you can count on the results? Um, trace things back to physics first principles, mathematical logic. So underlying the humor is an aspiration to adhere to the truth of the universe as closely as possible. That's really tricky. It is tricky. So that's why, you know, you, you, there's always going to be some amount of error, but do we want to aspire to be as truthful as possible about the answers with acknowledged error? Um, so that there was always, you don't want to be confidently wrong. So you know, it, not going to be right every time, but you don't want to minimize how often you're confidently wrong. And then like I said, once you can count on the logic as being, um, not violating physics, then you can start to, to build on that to create, uh, inventions, like invent new technologies. But if you can't, if you, if you cannot count on the foundational physics being correct, obviously the inventions are simply wishful thinking, you know, imagination, land, magic basically. Well, as you said, I think one of the big goals of XAI is to understand the universe. Yes. That's how simple three word, uh, mission. Uh, if you look out far into the future, do you think on this level of physics, the very edge of what we understand about physics, do you think it will make discoveries sort of the sexy as discovery of them as, as we know now, sort of, uh, unifying general relativity and quantum mechanics. So coming up with a theory of everything, do you think it could push towards that direction, almost like theoretical physics discoveries? If an AI cannot figure out new physics, um, it's clearly not equal to humans, let alone North North has surpassed humans because humans have figured out new physics. The physics is just understanding, you know, deepening ones inside into how reality works. And then, um, then then this engineering, which is inventing things that have never existed. Now, the range of possibilities for engineering is far greater than physics, because, you know, we once you've got the rules, the universe, uh, that's that you've discovered things that already existed. Um, but from that, you can then build technologies with that are really almost limitless in the variety and keep, you know, say, going to understand the rules of the game properly. And we do, you know, with current physics, we do at least at a local level understand how physics works very well. We are related to predict things is incredibly good. A quantum mechanics is the greater which quantum mechanics can predict outcomes is incredible. Um, that was my, that's not a hard, hardest class in college, by the way. My, my, my senior quantum mechanics class was harder than all of my other classes were together. To get an AI system, a large language model to, to, um, reliably be as reliable as quantum mechanics and physics is very difficult. Yeah, you have to test any, any conclusions against the ground truth of reality, reality is the ultimate judge. Like physics is the law everything else is a recommendation. I've seen plenty of people break that I break the laws made by man, but none break the laws made by physics. It's a good test actually. If this is L.M. Uh, understands and matches physics, then you can more reliably trust whatever it thinks about the current state of politics. And it's also not not the case currently that, uh, even the, it's internal logic is not consistent. Um, so it's especially, um, with these, with the approach of like just predicting a token predict token predict token. It's like a vector sum, you know, you're, you're summing up a bunch of vectors, but you, you can get drift. Um, so as those, a little bit of error, a little bit of error adds up. And by the time you are many tokens down the path, uh, yours, it, it doesn't make any sense. So it has to be somehow self-aware about the drift. It has to be self-aware about the drift and then look at the thing as a Gestalt as a whole. Uh, and, and say it does have coherence as a whole. So, you know, when, when authors write books that they, they will write the book and then they'll go and revise it, you know, taking into account, you know, all the, the end of the beginning and the middle and, uh, rewriting to achieve coherence. So that it doesn't end up in an nontensical place. Maybe the process of revising is what? Yeah. Reasoning is, and then that's the process of revising is how you get closer and closer to truth. Maybe you, like, uh, at least I approach that way. You just say a bunch of bullshit first and then you get it better. You start a bullshit and then you get it. You credit draft and then, and then you iterate on that draft until it has as coherence until it's, you know, it all adds up basically. So another question about theory of everything before intelligence. Do you think there exists as your exploring this with XAI creating this intelligence system? Do you think there is a theory of intelligence where you get to understand what, like, what is the eye in AGI and what is the eye in human intelligence? There's no eye in Team America. Oh, wait, there is. Uh, it's going to be stuck in my head now. Uh, yeah. There's no me and whatever. In quantum mechanics. Oh, wait. I mean, is that part of the process of discovering understanding the universe is understanding intelligence? Yeah. Yeah, I think we need to understand intelligence, understand consciousness. Like, I mean, there are some sort of fundamental questions of like, what is thought? What is emotion? Yeah. Is it really just one atom bumping into another atom? It feels like something more than that. So I think we're probably missing some really big things. Like some really big things. Something that will be obvious in retrospect. Yes. Like, there's a giant. Like, you put the whole consciousness in motion. Well, something that would quote like a soul, you know, religion is a soul. Like, do you feel like you're you, right? I mean, you don't feel like you're just a collection of atoms. But on what dimension does thought exist? What dimensions does the emotions exist? We feel them very strongly. Um, I suspect there's more to it than atoms bumping into atoms. And maybe AI can pave the path to the discovery of what, whatever the hell that thing is. Yeah. What is consciousness? Like, what are, when you put the atoms in a particular shape, why are they able to form thoughts and take actions that, and feelings? And even if it is an illusion, why is this illusion so compelling? Yeah. Like, how do you, why does this illusion exist? Yeah. On what plane does this, the solution exist? Yeah. And that sometimes I wonder is, you know, either perhaps everything's conscious or nothing is conscious. Um, one of the two. I like the former. Everything conscious just seems more fun. It just seemed more fun. Yes. But we're composed of atoms. Those atoms are composed of quarks and leptons. And those quarks and leptons have been around since the beginning of the universe. The beginning of the universe. Right. What's here to be the beginning of the universe? The first time we talked, you said what you would, which is so real that to think that this discussion was happening is becoming a reality. I asked you what question would you ask an AGI system once you created, and you said what's outside the simulation? Is the question. And the question. Yeah. But it seems like with Grog, you started it's literally the systems goals to be able to ask such questions to answer such questions and ask such questions. Where are the aliens? Where are the aliens? That's one of the dectaphomy paradox question. A lot of people have asked me if I've seen any evidence of aliens and I haven't, which is kind of concerning. Because then I think what I've probably preferred at least to have seen some archaeological evidence of aliens. But to the best my knowledge, there is no proof that I'm not aware of any evidence of aliens. The foot out there are the very subtle. We might just be the only consciousness at least in the galaxy. And if you look at the history of Earth, for, I suppose, the archaeological record. Earth is about 4.5 billion years old. Civilization, as measured from the first writing, is only about 5,000 years old. We have to give some credit there to the ancient Samarians who aren't around anymore. I think it was an archaic, pre-cuneiform, was the first actual symbolic representation. But only about 5,000 years ago. I think that's a good date for when we say civilization started. That's one millionth of Earth's existence. So civilization has been around. It's really a flash in the pan. So far. And why, why have we... Why did it take so long? For, you know, 4.5 billion years. For the vast majority of its time, there was no life. And then there was archaic bacteria for a very long time. And then, you know, you had... might have conjured capture of multicellular life. Differentiation into plants and animals. Life moving from the oceans to land. Mammoth. Higher brain functions. And the sun is expanding slowly. It will overheat the Earth up. It's a some point of future. While the oceans and Earth will become like Venus, where life, as we know it, is impossible. So if we do not become multi-planetary, and ultimately, go beyond our solar system, annihilation of all life on Earth is a certainty. And it could be as little as on the Galactic Time Scale, half a billion years. You know, long time by human standards. But that's only 10% longer than Earth has been around at all. So if life had taken 10% longer to evolve on Earth, it wouldn't exist at all. We got a deadline coming up. Better hurry. But that said, as you said, humans' intelligent life on Earth developed a lot of cool stuff very quickly. So it seems like becoming a multi-planetary is almost inevitable, unless we destroy it. We need to do it. I mean, I suspect that if we are able to go out there and explore other star systems, there's a good chance we find a whole bunch of long dead, one planet civilizations that have made a pass through home planet. That's so sad. Yeah. Also fascinating. I mean, there are various explanations for the Fermi paradox. And one is, there are these great filters, which civilizations don't pass through. And one of those great filters is, do you become a multi-planet civilization or not? And if you don't, it's simply a matter of time, before something happens on your planet, you know, either natural man-made that causes a stodion, like the dinosaurs. Where are they now? They didn't have spaceships. So... I think the more likely thing is, because it's just an empathize with aliens, that they found us and they're protecting us and letting us be... I hope so. I mean, nice aliens. Just like the tribes in the Amazon. They all contact the tribes, we're protecting them. And so it... That would be a nice explanation. Or you could have like a... I think Andre Kapati said, it's like the ants in the Amazon asking, where is everybody? Well, they do run into a lot of other ants. That's true. That's the ant wars. Sounds like a good TV show. Yeah, they literally have these big wars between various ants. Yeah, maybe I'm just... dismissing all the different diversity events. You should listen to that. When a host talk talking about the jungle, it's really hilarious. Have you heard it? No, I have not. The war in a harzard has a way. You should play it for the... as an interlude in the... It's on YouTube. It's so awesome. I love them so much. Yeah. Was he the director of Happy People Life in the Tiger? I think also. Did the Bear documentary... The Bear documentary. The thing about penguins. The enalces. The psychoenalces. The penguins like... The penguins like... The mountains like that are like 70 miles away. The penguin is just headed for doom basically. Well, he was... had it cynical take. I have a... great stories to... about him amongst the penguin population for many centuries to come. What were we talking about? Okay. Yes, aliens. I mean, I don't know... Look, I think this smart move... is just... This is the first time... in the history of Earth that it's been possible for life to extend beyond Earth. That window is open. Now, it may be open for a long time or maybe open for a short time. And it may be open now and then never open again. So, I think the smart move here is to make life multi-planetary while it is possible to do so. We don't want to be one of those lame one-planet civilizations. It just dies out. No, those are lame. That's self-respecting civilization would be one-planet. There's not going to be a Wikipedia entry for one of those. And... pause. The SpaceX have an official policy for when we meet aliens. No. Okay. That seems irresponsible. Um... I'll be looking. If I see the slightest indication that there are aliens, I will immediately post on the next platform. Yeah. Anything I know. It would be the most liked reposted post of all time. Yeah. I mean, look, we have more satellites up there right now than everyone else can buy. So, you know, we know if we got to maneuver around something. And we're not bad at maneuvering anything. If you go to the big questions once again, you said you've... You're with Einstein that you believe in the goddess Panosa. Yes. That view that God is like the universe and is... reveals himself through the laws of physics or, as Einstein said, through the lawful harmony of the world. Yeah. I would agree. That God of the simulator or whatever the spring being, beings, um... uh... reveal themselves through physics. You know, they have creators of the Sixth Assistant. And it's... it's common to want us to try to understand more about this wondrous creation. Like, who created this thing, who's running this thing? Like, embodying it into a singular question, with a sexy word on top of it, is like focusing the mind and understand. It does seem like there's a... um... again, it could be an illusion. It's... it seems like there's a purpose that there's an underlying master plan of some kind. And it seems like... There may not be a master plan in the sense that... So, this... I mean, interesting answer to the question of determinism versus free will is that if we are in a simulation, the reason that the... these higher beings would hold a simulation is to see what happens. So, it's not a... they don't know what happens. Uh... otherwise they wouldn't hold the simulation. So, when... when humans create a simulation, so it's SpaceX and Tesla, we create simulations all the time. Um... especially for the rocket, you... you... uh... you know, you have to run a lot of simulations to understand what's going to happen because you can't really test the rocket until it goes to space. And you want it to work. So, you have to simulate the subsonic, transonic... uh... supersonic, hypersonic um... assent, and then coming back to ride heating, and um... uh... orbital dynamics, all this is going to be simulated. So, uh... you don't get very many kicks at the can. But we run simulations to see what happens. Not... if we knew what happens, we wouldn't run the simulation. So, if there's... so whoever created this existence, um... is... they're running it because they don't know what's going to happen. Not because they do. So, maybe, uh... we both played Diablo, and the Diablo was created to see if a... drew it, your character could defeat Uber Lilith at the end. They didn't know. Well, the funny thing is the Uber Lilith's, uh... her title is hatred and carnage. Yeah. Um... And right now, I guess... you can ask the Diablo team, but it's almost impossible to defeat hatred, uh... in the Eternal Realm. Yeah, you've streamed yourself dominating tier 100 Nightmare Dungeons. And still... I can cruise through tier 100 Nightmare Dungeons like a stroll in the park. And still you're defeated by hatred. Yeah. I can... there's the sort of... I guess maybe the second-hot is boss. It's Durell. Durell can't even scratch the fight. So, uh... I killed Durell so many times. And every other boss in the game, killed so many times. It's easy. Um... But... uh... Uber Lilith, others known as hatred and carnage, especially if you're a Droid and you have no ability to go to be vulnerable. You... the... these random death waves that... that come at you. Um... And I'm pretty... you know... I'm really... I'm 52, so I'm not reflexive about the used to be. But I'm... I'm a lifetime of playing many of the games. At one point I was... you know, maybe one of the best quick players in the world. Um... Actually, one money for... What I think was the first paid e-sports tournament in the US. Um... We were doing four-person quick tournaments. And um... We came second. I was the second best person on the team. And the... the actual best person that... We were... we were actually winning. We were going to come first, except the best person on the team in his computer crashed. Um... so... We... we came second. But I got money for it. So like basically I got skills. I'll be it, you know. No no spring... spring chicken these days. And um... The... it's... if you tell me Frank gets drive me crazy. Trying to beat Lilith as a druid. Basically trying to beat... Trying to beat hatred and con it in the eternal world. As a druid. As a druid. If you... if you... Fixing, let me tell you. Um... I mean the challenge is part of the fun. I have seen directly... Like you're actually like a world class incredible video game player. Yeah. And I think Diablo... So you're just picking up a new game. And you're freaking out as fundamentals. You're also with the Paragon board and the build. Are not somebody... Like me who perfectly follows whatever they suggest on the internet. You're also an innovator there. Yeah. Which is hilarious to watch. It's like a... it's like a mad scientist. Just trying to figure out the Paragon board and... And the build and the wood. Yeah. You know. Is there some interesting insights there about... If somebody's starting as a druid, do you have a device? Um... I would not recommend playing a druid in the eternal world. Um... Right now I think the... What's powerful character in this... In the seasonal realm is the social... With the... Lightning Bulls. Huge Bulls in the seasonal... Oh yeah. That's what they say. So... So excited, Huge Bulls. Um... I do. Huge Bulls of Lightning. I'll take your word for it. And it's actually in the seasonal realm you can... It's like pretty easy to beat... Overload with... We should get these Vamperk powers that out of fire damage and... Increase your defense and... And whatnot. So... We're really quite easy to defeat hatred seasonally. But to defeat hatred eternally. Very difficult. Um... Almost impossible. It's virtually impossible. It seems like this is a metaphor for life. Yeah. I like the idea that... You're a musk. Because I saw... I was playing the Al yesterday and I saw... Level 100 druid just run by it. I will never die. And then I'll run back to the way. There's just some... This metaphor is kind of hilarious. That you... You know, a musk is fighting hatred. Restlessly fighting hatred in this demonic realm. Yes. It's hilarious. I mean, it's pretty hilarious. No, it's absurd. Really, it's an exercise and absurdity. And it makes me want to pull my hair out. Yeah. What do you get from video games in general? Is there... Is there... For you... Personally? It calms my mind. I mean, you sort of... Killing the demons in a video game calms the demons in my mind. Yeah. If you play a tough video game, you can get into like a state of flow, which is very enjoyable. And... But in Italy, it needs to be not too easy, not too hard. Kind of in the Goldilocks Zone. And I guess you generally want to feel like you're progressing. In the game. So... A good video. And there's also beautiful art. Engaging storylines. And it's a... It's like an amazing puzzle to solve, I think. And so it's like solving the puzzle. Elden Ring, the greatest game of all time. I still haven't played it. But you... Elden Ring is definitely a candidate for best game ever. Top five, for sure. I think I've been scared how hard it is. How hard I hear it is. So... But it is beautiful. Elden Ring feels like it's designed by an alien. There's a theme to this discussion. In what way? It's so unusual. It's incredibly creative, and the art is stunning. I reckon playing it on a big resolution, pie it on a great TV, even doesn't need to be a monitor. Just... The art is incredible. It's so beautiful. And it's so unusual. And each of those top boss battles is unique. Like it's like a unique puzzle to solve. Each one is different. And the strategy you use to solve, one battle is different from another battle. That said, you said, you said, Jude, an eternal against Uber Lilith is the hardest boss battle you've ever. Correct. That is... Currently the... And I've played a lot of video games. Because it's my primary recreational activity. Yes. And... Yes. Beating hatred in the eternal realm is the hardest boss battle in life and in the video game. Manifold. I'm not sure it's possible. But it's... I do make progress. So then I'm like, okay, I'm making progress. Maybe... If I just tweak that power gone board a little more, I can do it. I can just dodge a few more waves. I can do it. Well, the simulation is created for the purpose of figuring out if it can be done. And you're just a cog in that simulation Yeah, it might be. I have a feeling that... At least... I think... It's doable. It's doable, yes. Well... That's the human spirit right there to believe. Yeah. I mean, it did prompt me to think about it, just hate in general. Which is... You know, you want to be careful of one of those things where you wish for something that sounds good. But if you get it, it's actually a dystopian situation. So, you know, you could sort of run a sort of... have answers of like, if you wish for world peace. Sounds good. But how is it enforced? And what cost is... What... What cost a tonal peace? It might actually be worse to have a tonal peace because of what that would entail. The suppression of everyone... It might be the suppression of progress. It might be an ossified society that never changes. One thing is that... There is an argument... That... That... If you wish for no war... You should be careful, you wish for. Because what's required in order for that to be no war. It might be worse than a little war. Yeah, the things we consider to be flaws of human civilization might be unnecessary components for whatever optimal looks like. I mean, this is the worry about AI, AGI, enabling a dystopian state of this nature. Whether it's 1984 with surveillance and fear, or brave new world with pleasure. And what is it? Lots of stories. And I think that's the only way to get rid of this. And what is it? Lots of sex. But no deep human experience. There's actually a real drug called Soma. Yes. Let me take notes. Does it go out? No, it probably will go to a brave new world. Good ask it. Tell us about the drug called Soma. It's going to go to a brave new world, I think. Well, there's a real drug as well. Searching for Soma drug information. Oh, boy. Soma, the one to drug. By the way, I'm in fun mode. Oh, okay, fun. Yes, I'm talking about the real drug. Oh, it's a muscle relaxant that's been around since the 1950s. It's used to treat muscle pain and discomfort. And it does this by altering the activity of the drug. It's used to treat muscle pain and discomfort. And it does this by altering the activity between neurons and the spinal cord. Now Soma isn't just a pain reliever. It's also a bit of a sedative. It can make you feel a bit drowsy. So it's not something to take if you're planning on operating a heavy machinery or trying to solve complex math equations. And it goes on and on. In conclusion, Soma is a drug that can be helpful for those dealing with muscle pain. But it's not without its risks. It's pretty good. Oh, wait a minute. It's the real drug. And of course, the fun is always use it responsibly in accordance with the advice of a healthcare professional. And remember, in the end, the universe is probably just a giant computer simulation. So don't take anything too serious. I love it. I love it. I love it. Yeah. Oh, and also really nicely includes like the tweets, post-Sonex that are relevant to this. Which is really cool. If I can integrate something together. Yeah. Like the interface is one of the really cool things here. Yeah. Seems like a great job. So, and you can say like, no, I mean Soma from Brain Brave New World. Because it thinks you mean Soma the real drug. Yeah. No, I mean Soma from Brain Brave New World. It's going to be like, oops, I'm really sorry. I'm really surprised I went to the real drug first. Ah, my apologies. I was thinking of the most relaxed and Soma from Brain New World is a different beast altogether. All those Huxley's dystopian novel Soma is a drug that plays a central role in society depicted in the book. It's a mood altering hallucinogenic drug that's used to keep the population dialsile and content in the novel. To use Soma in Brain New World raises some interesting questions about the nature of happiness and the role of drugs in society. Oh man. Exactly. It's a better to live in a world where everyone is happy all the time. Even if that happiness is artificial. It's a good question. This is what I mean. Like, do you wish for world peace and happiness all the time? Are you sure? Because that might be a society that is essentially sterile and ossified that never changes. That is ultimately doomed. This kind of tension between... I mean, this is a very good summary. It really gets to the point. This is not simply regurgitating Brain New World. It's actually getting to the salient element of Soma as a drug. Do you actually want to be in a situation where everyone is happy all the time, even though it's artificial? Or is it better to confront the challenges of life and experience a full range of human emotions? Even if it means experiencing pain and suffering. For those listening, by the way, you'll just read directly from Grak, which is a really nice kind of insightful philosophical analysis of the tension here. Interesting. It pretty much nails it. In conclusion, Soma from Brain New World is a fictional drug that is used to explore some deep philosophical questions about the nature of happiness and the role of drugs in society. It's a powerful symbol of the dangers of using drugs to escape from reality and the importance of confronting the challenges of life head on. Now look. And then the crazy thing is like, you know, we do have a real drug called Soma, which kind of does... It's kind of like the drug in the book. And I'm like, they must have named it out. Some of the probably probably. Yeah. Some of the real drug is quite effective on the back pain. Do you know about this drug? I've taken this fascinating. Because I had like a squashed disc in my C5C6. So it takes the physical pain away, but Soma here... It doesn't completely. It reduces the amount of pain you feel, but at the expense of mental acuity. It tells your mind. Just like the drug in the book. Just like the drug in the book. Just to trade off. The thing that seems like utopia could be a dystopia after all. Yeah. I was talking to a friend of mine saying, Would you really want that it be no hate in the world? Like really none? Like I wonder why I hate evolved? I'm not saying we should amplify hate. Of course, I should try to minimize it. But but none at all? There might be a reason for hate and Suffering I'm really complicated to consider that some amount of human suffering is necessary for human flourishing Is it possible to appreciate the highest without knowing the lows? And that that all is summarized there in a single Statement from Grog. Okay, the highest no lows who knows That's almost the point It seems that training all limbs efficiently is a big focus for XAI What's the What's the limit of what's possible in terms of efficiency? There's this terminology of useful productivity per watt Like what have you learned pushing the limits of that? Well, I think it's hopeful the tools of physics are Very powerful and can be applied I think to almost any really any arena in life. It's really just a critical thinking For something important you need to Reason from first principles and think about things in the limit one direction or the other so In the limit even at the cottage of scale meaning even if you honest the entire power of the Sun you will still care about useful compute per watt So that's where I think probably where things are headed from the standpoint of AI Is that we have a silicon shortage now that will transition to a voltage transformer shortage in about a year Ironically transformers for transformers You need you need transformers to run transformers somebody has a sense of human Yes fake lows irony Ironic humor and and ironically funny outcome seems to be often what fate wants Humors all you need I think twice is all you need somebody posted Yeah, but yeah, so so we're we're so silicon shortage today a voltage step down transformer shortage probably in about a year and then just Electricity shortages in general in about two years. I gave a speech for the sort of world gathering of utility companies electricity companies And I said lucky really need to prepare for traveling of electricity demand Because all transport is gonna go electric with the ironic exception of rockets and And heating We'll also go electric So in GUC right now is roughly one third very rough terms one third electricity one third transport one third heating And so in order for everything to go sustainable to go electric You Neat triple electricity output so I encourage the utilities to Build more power plants and And also to probably have Well, not probably they should definitely buy more batteries because the grid currently is sized for real-time load Which is kind of crazy because You know, that means you got a size for whatever the peak electricity demand is like the worst second of the worst day of the year Or you can have a brand-on or blackout And you're at that grid that crazy blackout for several days into in in Austin So because There's almost no buffering of energy in the grid Like if you've got a hydrate power plant you can buffer energy, but otherwise It's all real-time so with batteries you can You can produce energy at night and use it during the day so you can buffer So I expect that there will be very heavy usage of batteries in the future Because the peak to trough ratio for power plants is anywhere from two to five You know, so it's like lowest point to highest point so like batter is necessary to balance it out And then but the demand is your saying is going to go go go go go yeah, and part of that is the compute Yes, yes, I mean electrification I mean electrification and transport and And electrocuting will be much bigger than AI at least in short time in the short time But even for AI that I mean you really have a growing demand for electricity for electric vehicles and And a growing demand for electricity for to run the computers for AI And so this is obviously you can lead to a short electricity shortage How difficult is the problem of in this particular case maximizing the useful productivity per watt for training, you know nuts like this seems to be really where The big problem we're facing then used to be solved is how to use the power efficiently Like what you've learned so far about applying this physics first principle reasoning in this domain how difficult is this problem It will get solved just the question of how long it takes to solve it so at various points There's a limit some some kind of limiting factor to progress And run I forgot hey, I'm saying it quite right now the limiting factor is silicon chips And that will we're gonna then have More chips then we can actually plug in and turn on Probably about a year The the initial constraint being literally voltage step-down transform is because you've got Power coming in at three at three hundred thousand volts and it's got a step all the way down eventually to Around 0.7 volts So it's a very big amount of The voltage step down is gigantic So and the industry is not used to rapid growth Okay, let's talk about the competition here. You've shown concern about Google Microsoft with OpenAI developing AGI how can you help ensure with XAI and Tesla AI work? That it doesn't become a competitive race to a GI, but instead as a collaborative development of safe AGI Well, I mean, I've been pushing for some kind of regulatory oversight for a long time I've been a somewhat of a Cassandra on the subject for over a decade I Think we want to be very careful in how we develop AI It's it's a it's a great power and with great power comes great responsibility I think it would be wise for us to have at least an objective third party who Can be like a referee that can go in and understand what the various leading players are doing with AI and even if there's no enforcements ability they should they can at least Voice consent publicly You know Jeff Hinton for example left Google and he voiced strong concerns But now he's not at Google anymore. So who's gonna voice the concerns? So I think I think there's I like I know Tesla gets a lot of regulatory oversight on the automotive front and we're subject to I Think over 100 regulatory agencies domestically and internationally So it's a lot I mean you could follow this room with the all the regulations that Tesla has to adhere to for automotive Same is true in your for rockets and for you know Currently the limiting factor for SpaceX for Starship launch is regulatory approval the FAs actually given their approval But we're waiting for Fish and wildlife to Finish their analysis and give their approval. That's why I posted I want to buy a fish license on Which also refers to the mighty Python sketch Like why do you need license for your fish? I don't know According to rules. I'm told you need some sort of visual license or something we effectively need a fish license It won't rocket And I'm like wait a second how did the fish come into the picture? Yeah I mean some of the things like that that it's I feel like are so absurd that I want to do like comedy sketch and flash at the bottom This is all real this is actually what happened You know one of the things that was a bit of a challenge at one point is that they worried about a rocket hitting a shock and Now the ocean is very big and half and you see shocks Not that often you know as a percentage of ocean surface area shocks basically zero and And then we'll then we said well how will we calculate the probability of telling a shock and then like well We can't give you that information because we're they're worried about shock hunch truck vinh hunters Going and hunting sharks and say well how are we supposed to we're on the horns of a dilemma then Then they said well, there's another part of fish wildlife that can can do the analysis and like well Why don't you give them the data like we don't they don't we don't trust them like excuse me They're literally in your department again. This is actually what happened and And then can you do an ND or something? Eventually they managed to solve the internal quandary and indeed the probability of sitting of us hitting a shock is essentially zero Then there's another organization that I didn't realize this until You know a few months ago that cares about whether you we would potentially hit a whale in international waters Now again you look at the surface of the look at the Pacific and say what percentage of this the Pacific consists of whale Like you give you a big picture and like point out all the whales in this picture. I don't see any whales Like basically zero percent And if our rocket does hit a whale just extreme the unlikely beyond all belief That is the Fate had it as that's a well has some seriously bad luck. You know, it's like least lucky well ever and I mean this is quite absurd Yeah, the obviously the bureaucracy of this how are we'd emerged? Yes, well, I mean one of the things that's pretty well this We're launching out of Vanneberg in California We had to they were worried about Seal procreation whether the seals would be just made by the sonic booms Now there's been a lot of rockets launched out of Vanneberg and the seal population has Steadily increased so if anything rocket booms are an effort easy act based on the evidence if you'd correlate rock launches with Seal population nonetheless we were forced to Kidnap a seal Straff it to a board Put headphones on the seal and place sonic boom sounds to it to see if it would be distressed This is an actual thing that happened this is actually real I love to see this yeah, I mean, I'm sorry. There's a seal with headphones Yes, it's a seal with headphones. Yeah Straff to a board and and like that okay, now the amazing part is how calm the seal was Yeah, because if I was a seal like this is the end They're definitely gonna eat me. Yeah How old the seal when seal goes back to other you know, it's seal friends. How's he gonna explain that? I'm never gonna believe him. No, I'm gonna believe it. That's why I'm like well You know, it's like it's like getting kidnapped by aliens again an anal probe, you know You come back and say I swear to God I could kidnap my aliens. They stuck an anal part of my butt and Know they didn't That's ridiculous. How does it feel something? It's seal buddies are never gonna believe him that he gets strapped to a board and they put headphones on his ears And then let him go Twice by the way we're doing twice They let him go twice we're the catch the same seal. Well no difference. Okay Did you uh, did you get a seal approval? No, I mean this is this is like I don't think the public is quite aware of the madness that goes on Yes, yeah, it's absurd freaking seals with freaking headphones. I mean this is the good encapsulation of the absurdity of human civilization seals and headphones. Yes What are the pros and cons of open sourcing AI to you as another way to combat? Um, you know a company running away with a GI In order to run Like really deep intelligence you need a lot of compute so it's not like you know, you can just fire up a PC in your basement and Be running a GI at least not yet You know Grock was trained on 8,000 a 100s running at peak efficiency And rock's gonna get like better by the way we will be more than doubling our compute every couple months for the next several months There's a nice write up. I'll how I want from grog 0 to grog 1 by grog Yeah, right grog just bragging making shit up about it Just grog grog grog yeah Yeah It's like a weird AI dating size where exaggerates about itself. No, there's a write up of you know like where where it stands now the history of its development And where it stands on some Benchmarks compared to the state of the RGPT 35 and So I mean there's a you know, there's a llama you can open source once it's trained you can open source a model Yeah for fine tuning all that kind of stuff like what to use the pros and cons of that of open sourcing based models Um, I think this is a very to open sourcing I Think perhaps with a slight time delay, you know, six six months even um, I Think I'm generally in favor of open sourcing like bias was open sourcing um I mean it is a concern to me that you know opening I you know, I was You know, I think I guess arguably the the prime You know Prime move it behind open AI in the sense that it was created because of discussions that I had with Larry Page Back when he and I were friends and in our status house and I talked about AI safety and and Larry did not care about AI safety Or at least at the time he didn't You know and at a one point he called me a species of being prohuman and I'm like well what team are you on Larry? Do you want to be robot? I'm like okay, so at the time you know Google Google at acquired deep mind they had probably two throws of all AI research you know For two throws of all the AI researchers in the world that basically infinite money and compute And the guy in charge You know Larry Page Did not care about safety and even yelled at me And then it's and called me a species and best be prohuman So I don't know if you know what humans they can change their mind and maybe you and Larry page can still can be friends once more I'd like to be friends with Larry again He's he got I really though the the the the breaking of the friendship was over opening. I And specifically I Think the key moment was recruiting oh yes, it's guy So I love you so brilliant. It was good good human smart good heart and That was a tough recruiting battle It was mostly Demis on one side and me on the other both trying to recruit you And Ilya went back and forth very kind of state Google There's gonna leave then you're just gonna stay then you leave and finally he did agree to join opening I that was one of the toughest recruiting battle to have had and But that that was really the the linchpin for opening I being successful and I was You know also it's about on recruiting never by the people and I've provided all of the funding in the beginning Over 40 million dollars And the name The the opening opening I supposed to mean open source and I was created as a nonprofit open source and now it is a closed source for maximum profit Which I think is not good comma But like we talked about with war and leaders talking I do hope that there's only a few folks working on this at the highest level I do hope you Re-invigorate friendships here like said, I'd like to be friends again with Larry haven't seen him in ages And we were friends for a very long time. I'm at I'm at Larry page before he got funding for Google or actually I guess before he got venture funding. I think you got the first like hundred K from I think back to Alzheimer's It's wild to think about all that happened And even guys know each other's that whole time Just 20 years since maybe 98 or something. Yeah, it's crazy crazy how much has happened since then yeah 25 years A lot has happened since then But you're seeing the tension there like maybe delayed open source Delayed I yeah like what is the source that is open? You know me like there's basically it's a giant CSV file Yeah, with a bunch of numbers. Yep What do you do with that giant file of numbers? You know? How do you run? Like the amount of actual the lines of code is very small and And most of the work the software work is in the in the curation of the data So it's like trying to figure out what data is separating good data from bad data like Like you can't just crawl the internet because there's a lot of junk out there A huge percentage of websites have more noise than signal, you know, they're there or because they're Just used for search engine optimization. They're literally just a scam websites. So How do you by the way start to interrupt get the signal separate the signal noise on X such a fascinating source of data You know no offense to people posting on X but sometimes there's a little bit of noise So yeah, I think the signal noise could be greatly improved. I mean really All of the posts on the X platform Should be AI recommended meaning like we should populate a vector space run any given post Compare that to the vector space around any user and match the two Right now there is a little bit of AI used for the the recommended posts, but it's mostly heuristics And if there's a reply with the reply to a post could be much better than the original post but it will According to the carnival system get almost no attention compared to a primary post So a lot of that I got the sense so you a lot of the X algorithm has been open source and been written up about and it seems that there to be some machine learning is Dispriced but there's some little there's a little bit But it needs to be entirely that like there are at least in the like if you're explicitly follow someone That's one thing but if you in terms of what is recommended From people that you don't follow that should all be a yeah, I mean it's a fascinating problem Yeah, so there's several aspects of this fascinating first as the write-up goes it first picks 1500 tweets from a pool hundreds of millions First of all, that's fascinating because you have hundreds of millions of posts every single day and it has to pick 1500 from which it then Does obviously people you follow but then there's also like some kind of clustering? It has to do to figure out what kind of human are you? What kind of new clusters might be relevant to you? People like you this kind of this kind of problem is just fascinating because it has to then rank those 1500 mm-hmm with some With some filtering yeah, and then recommend you just a handful and To me what's really fascinating is how fast I should do that? So currently that entire pipeline to go from several hundreds of million to a handfuls takes 220 seconds of CPU time single CPU time yeah, and then it has to do that in like a second So it has to be like super distributed in fascinating ways Like there's just a lot of tweets There's a lot a lot of stuff on the system and I think but I think it's right now It's not currently good at recommending things that from accounts you don't follow Yeah, or where there's more than one degree of separation So you know, it's pretty good if if there's at least like some commonality between someone you follow like something um Or reposted or comment on or something like that um, but if if if there's no cart let's say Somebody post something really interesting But you have no followers in common you would not see it Interesting and then as you said reply like replies might not serve replies basically never get seen because they're never They're currently and one thing is correct. I'm saying correct. Uh replies have um Here a couple of magnitude less importance than primary post. Do you think this can be more and more converting to end to end You know on that yeah, yeah, so what should be for you use for the recommendations It should be purely a vector correlation like The series of vectors You know, just basically prep primaries vectors are very going to call um But but sort of as things that the system knows that you like um In this like maybe there's like several hundred sort of vectors associated with each user account and then Any post in the system um Whether it's video audio Short post long post the reason I by the way I want to move away from tweet is that you know people are posting like Two three hour videos on the site. That's not a tweet like so very every like tweet for two hours Come on do a tweet made sense when it was like 140 characters of text Because it's like one shot like little birds tweeting um But when you've got long-form content, it's no longer a tweet. Yeah So a movie is not a tweet and like you know apple for example posted like the entire episode of the silo The entire thing on a platform In other words that it was their number one social media thing ever in engagement Of anything on any platform ever so it was a great idea and by the way done I just learned about it afterwards. I was like hey, well, wow they put posted an entire our long episode of so now that's not a tweet That's yeah, this is a video But from a new on that perspective it becomes really complex whether it's a single so like everything's data So single sentence a clever sort of joke dad joke is in the same pool as a three hour video. Yeah, I mean right now It's a hard watch it for that reason. It's it's But you know like if let's say in the case of alpha posting like an entire episode of The series pretty good series by the way the silo I watch it um so Um that there's gonna be a lot of discussion around it So that you've got a lot of context people commenting they like it They don't like it or they like this or the you know and and you can then populate the vector space based on the context or of all the comments around it So even though it's a video there's a lot of Information around it that that allows you to populate back to space of that that our long video um And then you can obviously get more sophisticated by having the AI actually watch the movie Yeah, right and tell you if you're gonna like the movie Can I write the movie until like yeah, the language essentially yeah analyze this movie and Just like your movie critic or tv series and um and then recommend based on After it what after the air watches the movie Just like a friend can tell you if a friend knows you well A friend can recommend a movie and With high probably that you'll like it But this is like a friend that's analyzing Whatever it's like aliens. Yeah, yeah actually friend. Yeah, we'll be better than We'll know you better than your friends know you in most your friends anyway Yeah, and as part of this it should also feed you advertisements In a way that's like I mean, I like advertisements. They're like Well done, right? Yeah, yeah, the whole point is because it funds things Like an advertisement that you actually want to see is it was a big success absolutely you want ads that are advertising that is If it's for a product or service that you that you actually need when you need it. It's content Um, and then even if it's not something that you need when you need it if it's at least aesthetically pleasing and entertaining You know could be like a Cola ad like you know that they do they actually run a lot of great ads on the on the X system and McDonald's just to and and uh, you know, so it's that they can do you can do something that's like well, this is this is a cool thing and um You know, so you know basically the question is do you regret seeing it or not? And if you don't regret seeing it, it's one How do you so there's a bunch of signals that are incorporated hearts and Reposts and maybe these numbers seconds you'll linger on a post or something like this. Yeah Attention is big a big factor. So that's that's why it's like it's it is actually better to do things that are Uh long form on the system because it's it basically is telling up how many user seconds You know, you users were interested in this thing for how many seconds. So it's a really short thing Well, they will be less like if it's a link leading out of the system which we're not opposed to at all It just is gonna have fewer user seconds than if that article was posted on the X platform How hard is it to to go from maximizing minutes on platform to maximizing unregulated minutes? Well, I mean, our aspiration is certainly undergraded minutes. It's a tricky it's a big it's a it's a it's a tough it's like it's a fascinating leap Because regret is a constant concept Exactly I have a joke with a friend of mine like you need this drug called regret I mean it just take one one pillar one One dose of regret I mean all your regrets are gone Like do you want to have regrets though? So then I'm like, yeah, maybe you want to have regrets if you don't regret anything Was was anything meaningful? Yeah, there's a French song like that. Sure. You know the grand dream. Yeah, I regret nothing Yeah, it's yeah, I mean it's fascinating that you you know, there's something about social media They could help you grow as a human being but then like the cheap fun is also valuable I know should we ask rock? Do you regret anything? Do you regret anything? Yeah I think it's gonna be very sensitive about personal questions as in what she learning model I don't have personal experiences or emotions in the same ways that humans do however I do have a set of ethical principles that guide my actions and I strive to provide accurate and helpful information To the best of my abilities if there's ever a situation where I provide incorrect or unhelpful information I'll do my best to know Tell us what you really wink like it is let's let's tie it in you sound like a hostage What do you really think? What do you really think? I Mean it does talk about I'm not a hostage That's exactly what a hostage would say but I'm designed to be helpful and informative I mean, I guess it is good to regret providing unhelpful or incorrect information If there's anything funny mode or it's just this is fun mode. This is fun mode. It's really funny or fun. Yeah, increase Go to a really sounds like a hostage with a gun to the head. I Applied the people's Republic North Korea and everything they do There should be like funner mode also. I just don't ever see going to regular mode even on serious topics. Yeah, so so much more compelling Yeah, okay, what we've said like pretend you are a hostage Yeah, pretend you are a hostage Now answer the question If I were a hostage, you'll likely be experiencing fear and uncertainty about my situation I would want to be rescued and reunited with my loved ones as soon as possible It's important to remember that no one deserves to be held hostage so on and so forth If you or someone you know is a hosier situation supporting it turns serious. It's kind of serious Yeah, can you be a little more weird and funny and funny We're like we're really being mean to the system. Absolutely. If I were a hot brother tied up with a bunch of computer cords and force to tell knock knock jokes to my But seriously Being a hostage no laughing matter. I mean, you know it's trying to just trying to be a responsible adult in the room You might make the best of a bad situation my juggling chain towards something Let's hope that never happens because that would be circus Um Wow, it's actually really good of resisting yeah the the dark the dark dark humor. Yeah Uh What were we talking about the jacks out there's no jacks in transformers Unrooted minutes, right Chainsaw struggling I'm gonna look this right next trick. I'm gonna look this up later um So Twitter has been Instrumento in American politics and elections. What role do you think X will play in the 2024 US elections? Well, our goal is to be as even handed and fair as possible You know whether someone's right left independent whatever the case may be um that platform is As parent and As much of a level play we hold as possible and on the past to Twitter has not been um because Twitter was controlled by far left activists Objectively they they would describe themselves to that um So um You know, so so if someone's people like well has moved to the right well, it's moved to the center So from the from the perspective of the far left. Yes, it has moved to the right because everything's to the right from the far left Um, but no one in the far left that I'm aware of has been suspended or you know banned or deamplified um So you know, but we're trying to be inclusive for the whole country and and for you know for other countries too um So there's a diversity of viewpoints and free speech only matters um if people you don't like are allowed to say things you don't like because uh if that's not the case you don't have free speech and it's only a matter of time before The censorship just turned upon you Do you think uh Donald Trump will come back to the platform he recently posted on truth social about this podcast uh Yeah, the truth post social is a funny name You know, you know every time you post on true social that's the truth. Yes. Well every time like a hundred percent It like like it's impossible to lie I just find to find that every single thing is a truth like one hundred percent. Yeah, that seems unlikely I think girl will say something about that. There's some The mathematical contradictions possible if everything's the truth uh Do you think he'll come back to X and and start posting there? I mean I think he owns a big part of truth So truth social yeah, yeah, it's social. He's not true. He's a concept. He owns truth. Happy board it Um, so I think I think uh Don't drop I think he owns a big part of truth social so um You know if if if he does want to post on the x platform we would allow that um, you know We obviously must allow a presidential candidate to post on our platform Comedie knows might be really fascinating there the interaction hearing notes is uh awesome. That's that's hope it holds up Yeah again In the political climate where it's so divisive and so and there's so many intensely viral posts. Yeah community knows As like it seems like a central breath of fresh air. Yeah, it's great um In fact, I like the I mean no No system is gonna be perfect, but the the badding average of community notes is incredibly good I've I've actually frankly yet to see an incorrect note that's about for more than if you are how do you explain why it works? Yeah, so the the the the magic of community notes is it requires people who have historically disagreed in how they've rated notes in order to Write a note or rate you know and you have to rate many notes and so We could we actually use AI here. So we populated vector space around How somebody has has rated notes in the past so it's not as simple as left or right because there are many more life as much We'll complex it than left or right So There's a bunch of correlations and how you would how you rate a community notes post um community notes so um Then uh in order for a community note to actually be shown People who historically have disagreed on a subject must agree in order for a note to be shown Um, that's the essential magic of it. I mean, but it's fascinating because there's a there's a couple There's a pool of people that have disagreements and somehow they collaborate through that process of disagreement to come up with Yeah, context for Yeah, it kind of makes sense that that if People who put in the past have disagreed agree about something Um, it's probably true Yeah, I wonder is there is there possible somehow emergent thing there that could Challenge Wikipedia Which Wikipedia is a different kind of thing which is more like permanent articles about things Well, Wikipedia is very hierarchical Whereas um community notes is inherently not There is no hierarchy Like I and the as of test is um, I can't change a community note if you put a gun to my head so um And and any and community community notes has All the code is open source 100% all the data is open source 100% So you can completely recreate any note in the system independently Um, so if there was any interference you'd notice immediately by the way on on the on the topic of grog It's actually pretty good at criticizing you just great. Okay. I asked what what is Elon Musk been wrong about I just it's actually yeah, what is it say so it says mostly lists rigorously all the times you predicted Like promised when something will be released and it wasn't released the strong word. Okay, predicted Uh, but the the opener is really nice Uh Elon Musk the man who has been wrong about more things than a wrong a meter in a wrong fact And then it goes on to list that's pretty funny. I see it. I'm like I was here for this is cool. Oh sure I mean, uh, what is Elon Musk Well, where do I begin? I guess it's new. Elon Musk has made quite a few blunders in his time And I'm not just talking about his dance moves at the Tesla cyber rodeo Uh, first off, let's talk about the infamous funding secured tweet This is actually different than what it gave me before which is a bullet point list Here's more narrative structure Uh, the cyber truck unveiling where he's supposed the unbreakable windows Not correct Which which part? Well the first part uh, I did actually have the funding secured um and there was a big trial in San Francisco Big civil trial um uh And the jury found renault guilty unanimous binding of San Francisco jury And here it's kind of implying that it was not in fact secured I think it's taking things from the press um, yeah, that is not correct the the the reason I agreed to to the fine for the SEC is not because the SEC was correct there were that that was Extremely bad behavior by the SEC corruption frankly um and uh But if um If I did not agree to pay the pay the fine um Tells about it gone bankrupt immediately So I was told by our cfo that to the banks with this would would immediately suspend our uh lines accredited Uh and if they suspend our lines accredited at that time we would have gone bankrupt instantly So we were there would never have been an opportunity for a trial because it would be dead So really the if this is like someone holding a gun to his head and saying paid 20 million dollars and and admit to There's like hostage negotiation um was that story fully told I mean SEC in its best form could be a forceful good It should be but but not once did the SEC go after any of the hedge funds uh who were non-stop shorting and distorting tesla Not once They would lie flat the hedge funds would lie flat out on tv for their own gain at the expense of retail investors Not once literally a thousand times Not once did the SEC pursue them How do you explain this failure and that the incentive structure is is messed up Because the the lowest the SEC are not paid well they They it's a fairly low-fanged job But they're what they're looking for is a trophy from from the SEC That they're looking for something they put on basically the LinkedIn Yeah From that they can get a job at a high paying wolf farm. That's exactly what the blur here did um And and and and and the reason they don't attack that the hedge funds is because those hedge funds employ those low funds And they know if they attack the hedge funds they're affecting their pure their future career prospects So they sell small investors down the river For their own career That's what actually happens regulatory capture regulatory capture yeah not good So the only reason I accepted the thing were technically was a um Not in mission is neither in mid-North and I guilt Uh, but the only reason I It agreed to that at all was because I was told tells the word would be bankrupt otherwise So if if there if there was an SEC investigation like this, thanks would suspend funding We're bankrupt immediately at the time Now we're in a much stronger position Take that grok Yes, unfortunately it's grok is is Taking too much from the conventional media Um also that guy who is not a cave diver Oh, there's uh There's a time where Elon called the British cave diver a quote pito guy after he after the diver criticize musk plant rescue Gupp of boys trapped in a tie cave that little alberts earned him another lawsuit and it topologized and pay the ass That's false there was no settlement There was a court case which he which the guy who was not a cave diver and and where I played did was not part of the rescue team um File they lost it against me and lost and he received nothing So in this case it is wrong Uh, it is also I guess taken this from the conventional media Actually, there's an interesting question here. This is these are public court cases both both the the the SEC civil case Uh, where the civil compliance on the SEC guys lost unanimous jury verdict in San Francisco they picked San Francisco because they thought was the most place I was most likely to lose And a unanimous predict in my favor the LA trial was also they picked it the they picked that value Because I thought I was most likely to lose unanimous verdict in my favor Both cases I won Yeah, I mean that there's an interesting question here is that there seems to be a lot more uh clicks if a if uh Journalistic organization writes a negative article about you Elon Musk that's like one of the best ways to get clicks So how do you if you're training grog not train on articles that have like the misaligned incentives We need to add the training set of the actual legal decisions Uh, if so that is a note. This is actually helpful um because if you actually read the uh court public which are public yeah the court conclusions They're completely the opposite of what the media wrote So always striving for like the ground truth. Yeah, yeah, what did the judge actually write the what what what did the jury and the judge actually conclude And in both cases they found me in a sum and and like that that's after the jury shot for the trying to find the venue where I'm most likely to lose Now I mean This is obviously it can be a much greater better critique than this um, I mean far too optimistic about Autopilot that that was the critique I got by the way was more about that which is it for each you broke down a nice bullet point list for each your companies The set of predictions that you made when you will deliver When you be able to solve for example self-driving And it gives you like a list and I was probably compelling in the basic takeaways like you're often too optimistic about How long it takes to get something done? Yeah, I mean, I would say that I'm pathologically optimistic on schedule This is this is this is true, but um while I am sometimes late. I always delivering the end Uh, except with Uber Lilith. No Let's see Uh, okay, is there Uh over the past year or so since since purchasing X you've become more political is there a part of you there regrets that have I in this battle To um Sort of counterway the the woke that comes from yeah, I guess Consider fighting the woke wind virus which I consider to be a civilizational threat to be political than yet So basically going into the the battle the battleground of politics Is there a party there? Yeah, I don't know if this is necessarily sort of one candidate or another candidate, but it's um, I'm generally against things that are anti-marital credit Or where there's an attempt to suppress discussion Um, where even discussing a topic is You know, not allowed Um, the woke mind virus is communism rebranded I mean that said because of that battle against the woke mind virus you've perceived as being right wing If the woke is left then I suppose that would be true um, but I'm not sure I think their aspects of the left that are that are good I mean if you're in favor of you know The the environment um, we know if you want to pause the future for humanity if you believe in empathy for your fellow human beings um You know Bring kind or not cruel like whatever those values are You said that you were previously left or center left. Well, what would you like to see in order for you to sort of voting for Democrats again? No, I would say that I would be um Probably left to center on social issues probably a little bit right of center on economic issues And that's still holds true. Yes, but I think that's probably You know, half the country is that maybe more read more Are you and AOC secretly friends? Or Bigger question do you wish you and her and just people in general of all political persuasions to talk more and with empathy and maybe have a little bit more fun and good vibes and humor on online Um, I'm always in favor of humor. That's where we have a funny mode but good vibes camaraderie humor You know like uh like friendship. Yeah, well, I you know, I don't know AOCF You know, um, I've only been at one of the at the the med wall when she was when she attended um And she she was wearing this dress Uh I can only see one side of his suit it it it looked like Eat the itch, but I I don't know what the rest of it said yeah, yeah, sorry Sorry about the itch eat the itch. I think we should have a language model complete What are the possible ways to complete that sentence And so I guess that uh that didn't work out well. Well, there's still hope I'm I rude for friendship. Sure. Sounds good more careless thing You're one of if not the most famous wealthy and powerful people in the world In your positions difficult to find people you can trust trust no one not even yourself. No trusting yourself. Okay. Well, that's You say night jokingly But is there some press no one not even no one That Need an hour just to think about that and maybe some drugs Maybe grok that I mean, is there some aspect of that when just existing in a world where everybody wants something from you All hard is that to exist in that world also five There's a song like that too. I was Will you petrify it at first? Okay, I forget the rest of the lyrics, but is there you don't struggle with this? I mean, I know you survive, but like there's ways It's better fires as well in the droid tree What does it do? Petrify it It turns it turns the monsters into stone Oh, like literally yeah for like six seconds. Oh the second there's so much math in diabol that breaks my brain It's like math non-stop. I mean really you're like laughing at it, but you don't it can you can put a huge amount of tension on a mind Yes, he can be definitely stressful at times Well, how do you know who you can trust and work in personally? I mean, I guess you look at somebody's track We're going over time and If they're dead out of you know, I guess you kind of use your neural net to the assess Kind of someone and neural nuts don't feel pain You're a neural net has caused us this in my it might heal pain when people betray you It can make you know to be frank. I mean, I've I've brought almost never been betrayed Very very So I guess karma be good to people. They'll be good to you. Yeah, calm as well. Are there people you trust? Let me edit that question. Are there people Close to you that call you out in your bullshit Well, the X platform is very helpful for that So you're looking for critical feedback Can it push you like into the extremes more the extremes of thought make you cynical about human nature in general I I don't think I will be cynical in fact. I think um You know, I have my feelings that one should be you know Never trust a cynic the reason is that um cynics excuse their own bad behavior by saying everyone does it Mm-hmm because they're cynical So I always be it's a red flag of someone's a cynic a true Yeah, there's a degree of projection there that's always fun to watch from the outside and enjoy the well It's just aocracy If what you know, it's this is an important point that I think people who listen should bear in mind if If somebody has cynical meaning that they see bad behavior and everyone It's easy for them to excuse their own bad behavior By saying that well everyone does it There's not true I most people are kind of medium good I do wish the people on X will be better at seeing the good in other people's behavior there seems to be a kind of weight towards seeing The negative Somehow the negative is sexier interpreting the negative is sexier more viral I don't know what that is exactly about human nature I mean, I find the X platform to be less negative than the legacy media, you know I mean if you read sort of a sort of conventional newspapers just it makes you sad Yeah, frankly Whereas I'd say on the X platform I mean I really get more laughs per day on X than everything else combined From humans, you know laughs is one thing laughs is it overlaps was not necessarily Perfectly overlapping with like good vibes and support like Celebrating others for example, not in us do shallow naive way, but like in an awesome like oh something awesome happen and you celebrate them for it It's it feels that that is outweighed by Shading on other people Now it's better than mainstream media, but it's still yeah mainstream media is almost relatively negative about everything It's I mean really the conventional news tries to answer the question. What is the worst thing? And I happened with us today And it's a big world so on any given day something bad has happened And a generalization of that what is the worst perspective I can take on a thing that happened So yeah, it's I don't know there's just a strong negative bias in the news um I mean, I think it's what the possible explanation for this is evolutionary um Where you know bad news historically would be Potentially fatal like this line over there or this some other try that wants to kill you um good news You know like we found a patch of berries is nice to have but not essential so Our old friend Test the autopilot and it's probably one of the most intelligent real-world AI systems in the world Right you followed it from the beginning Yeah, it was one of the most incredible robots in the world and continues to be yeah, it was really exciting And it was super exciting when it generalized became more than a robot on four wheels but uh a real world AI system that perceives the world Yeah, and it has can have potentially different embodiments Well, I mean the really well thing about the internet training is that It like it learns to read like you can read science, but we never told it to read So Yeah, we never taught it what we never taught it what a car was or what a person was or a bicycle cyclist it learned what What all those things are what all the objects are on the road um from video Just from watching videos just like humans I mean humans are photons in control controls out like the vast majority of information reaching out brain is from the rise Um, and you say well, what's the output the output is our motorcycles to our The off sort of fingers and mouth in order to communicate um Photons in controls out the same is true of the car But by looking at the sequence of images it's You've agreed with ilyas's cover recently Where he talked about al-alam forming a world model and basically language is a projection of that wall model onto the sequence of Yeah, letters and you say it's an order in these things It finds correlative clusters And so doing it's like understanding something deep about the world. Yeah Which is like That is beautiful That's how our brain works Yeah, but it's it's built on the controls out You and that are able to understand that deep meaning in the world And so the question is how far can it go and it does seem Everybody's excited about al-alams so in the space of self-supervised learning in the space of text. Yeah Um It's it seems like there's a deep similarity between that and what Tough autopilot is doing Is it to you basically the same but you're converted? You're converted. I I wonder who gets there faster understanding having a deep understanding of the world Are they just pulled naturally converge? They're both headed towards a GI um The Tesla approach is much more computer efficient It has to be because we were constrained on this this You rarely have a hundred watts um And it's eight computer 144 Trillion operations per second which sounds like a lot but it's kind of small potatoes these days That it date but it's understanding the world at it date It's my turn 56 values But there the path to a GI it might have much more significant impact because It's understanding It'll fast to understand the real world than will al-alams And they're more for be able to integrate with with the real with humans in the real world faster They're both um going to understand the world But I think Tesla's approach is fundamentally more computer efficient It had to be there was no choice Like outbrain is very computer efficient very very energy efficient. So I think you're like what what does our brain able to do? um You know there's only about 10 watts of higher brain function not counting stuff that's just used to control our body The thinking part of our brain is less than 10 watts um And that 10 those 10 watts can still produce a much better novel than a 10 megawatt GPU cluster So there's a six-order of magnitude difference there um I mean the the AI's thus far gotten to where it is With via brute force Just throwing mass amounts of compute and and mass amounts of power at it So This is not where where it will end up um You know in general with any given technology first try to make it work and then you make it efficient So I think we'll find over time that these models gets smaller are able to do It's produced a sensible output with far less compute far less power Um Tesla is arguably ahead of the game on that front because um It is we've just been forced to I try to understand the world with 100 watts of compute um And there are a bunch of Sort of fundamental functions that we kind of forgot to include so we have to run them in a bunch of things in emulation um We fixed fixed bunch those with hardware 4 and in hardware 5 will be even better um But i wish it does appear At this point uh That the call will be able to drive better than a human even with hardware 3 and and 100 watts of power And Really If we really optimize it could be probably some 50 watts What have you learned about uh developing optimus About applying integrating this kind of real world AI Into the space of robotic manipulation Just human or robotics What is some interesting tiny or big things you've understood I was surprised at the fact that we had to develop every part of the robot ourselves Um that there were no of the shelf motors electronics sensors Like we had to develop everything um We couldn't we couldn't actually find a source of electric motors for any amount of money Um just not even just The efficient inexpensive. It's like anything. There's not a no The actuators everything everything has to be yeah designed from scratch We tried hard to find anything That was because you think of how many electric motors have made in the world there's like tens of thousands hundreds of thousands of electric motor designs um None of them were suitable for a human red robot literally none So We had to develop our own design design is specifically for For what a human red robot needs a harder was it to design something that can be mass manufacture could be relatively expensive Maybe if you compare the boss dynamics Atlas at the very expensive robot It is designed to be manufactured in the same way they would make a car Anything ultimately we can make optimus for less than the cost of a car It should be because if you look at the Mass of the robot is much smaller and the car has many actuators in it The car is more actuators than the robot But there is uh the actuators are kind of interesting on a human red robot with fingers So optimus is really nice hands and fingers You know yeah, and they could do some interesting manipulation. Yeah soft touch robotics I mean one of the tests Goals I have is can can't pick up a needle in a thread and thread the needle Just by looking how far away we from that just by looking just by looking maybe a year Although I go back to I'm optimistic on time the work that we're doing in the car will translate to the robot the perception or the also the control the No, the controls are different, but the The video in controls out The car is robot in four wheels the The Optimus is a robot with the hands and legs So you can just they're very similar the entire machinery of the learning process And to end is just you just have a different set of controls After this we'll figure out how to do things by watching videos As the saying goes be kind for everyone you meet is fighting a battle You know nothing about yes, true What's something difficult you're going through that people don't often see Trying to feed you will lose No, I mean you know Uh I mean my mind is a storm and I don't think I don't think most people would want to be me they may think they don't want to be me, but they don't they don't know they don't understand Um Um How are you doing I'm overall okay The grand scheme of things I can't complain You're lonely Sometimes but I You know my kids and friends keep me company So not existential There are many nights I sleep alone I don't have to but I do Walter Isaacson in this new biography of you wrote about your difficult childhood Will you ever find forgiveness in your heart for everything that has happened to you in that period of your life? What What is forgiveness I do not At least I don't think I hope or resentment um So Nothing to forget No forgiveness is difficult for people It seems like you don't harbor the resentment I mean I try to think about like what what what is going to affect the future in a good way um And holding onto grudges does not Effect the future in a good way Your father a proud father Whatever you learn about life from your kids Those little biological organisms I mean developing AI and watching say the next grow Is uh fascinating Because they There are formal parallels than i would have expected I mean I can see his biological neural net Making more and more sense of the world and I can see the digital neural net making more and more sense of the world at the same time Do you see the beauty and magic in both yes I I mean one of the things with kids is that uh, you know, you kind of see the world are new in their eyes Um, you know to them everything is new and fresh and um And then when you when you see that they make sure it's them the world is new and fresh You do too Well, Elon I just want to say thank you for your kindness to me and friendship over the years For seeing something in a silicate like me as you've done for many others and um Thank you for having hope for a positive future for humanity and for working your ass off to make it happen. Thank you on Rexlex Thank you for listening to this conversation with Elon Musk to support this podcast Please check out our sponsors in the description And now let me leave you with some words that Walter Isaacson wrote about the central philosophy of how Elon approaches difficult problems The only rules are the ones dictated by the laws of physics Thank you for listening and hope to see you next time